# Data Processing Addendum

You or the legal entity that you represent (hereinafter “You”) and Edicy OÜ
(registry code: 12176224; Raekoja plats 1, 51003 Tartu) registered under the
laws of Estonia (hereinafter “Voog”) individually herein referred to as a
“Party” and collectively as the “Parties”, have concluded this Data Processing
Addendum (hereinafter “DPA”) on the following terms:

## 1\. Background 

1.1. Parties have concluded a Terms of Service. This DPA is an addendum of the
Terms of Service. In the event of conflict between Terms of Service and the
DPA the DPA shall prevail.

## 2\. Definitions 

2.1. The DPA terms that are written in the upper case first letter hereinafter
is used in the following meanings unless the context indicates a different
meaning: 

    2.1.1. Applicable Law means all legislation, ordinations and advice from
    supervisory authorities, applicable to Voog (includes also the European
    Regulation 2016 /679 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
    the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data
    known as the EU GPDR (General Data Protection Regulation), hereinafter the
    “GDPR”);

    2.1.2. Consent means any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous
    indication of the Data Subject's wishes by which he/she, by a statement or
    by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the processing of
    Personal Data relating to him/her;

    2.1.3. Controller means a natural or legal person, public authority,
    agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the
    purposes and means of the processing of Personal Data; 

    2.1.4. Data Subject means an identified or identifiable natural person;

    2.1.5. Data Breach means a breach of security leading to the accidental or
    unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or
    access to, Personal Data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed; 

    2.1.6. Personal Data means any information relating to a Data Subject that
    enables to identify, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to
    an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an
    online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical,
    physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of
    that natural person; 

    2.1.7. Processing means any operation or set of operations which is
    performed on Personal Data or on sets of Personal Data, whether or not by
    automated means, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring,
    storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use,
    disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available,
    alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction; 

    2.1.8. Processor means a natural or legal person, public authority, agency
    or other body which processes Personal Data on behalf of the Controller;

    2.1.9. Services means services which are listed or provided according to
    the Terms of Service; 

    2.1.10. Subprocessor means any subprocessor processing Personal Data
    engaged by Voog; 

    2.1.11. Third Party means a person who is not a Party to the contract
    concluded between the Parties; 

    2.1.12. Third Party Services means all services which are provided to and
    for or from a Third Party;

    2.1.13. Your Controlled Data means the Personal Data processed by Voog on
    Your behalf and according to Your instructions as part of the Services,
    but only to the extent of which You are subject to under Applicable Law.
    Your Controlled Data does not include Personal Data when controlled by us,
    including without limitation data we collect (including IP address,
    device/browser details and web pages visited prior to coming to Voog’s
    Site) with respect to Your end users’ interactions with Your site through
    their browser and technologies like cookies;

2.2. Headings are used in this DPA are for convenience only and shall not
affect any construction or interpretation of this DPA.

## 3\. Confidentiality 

3.1. Voog guarantees to Process and store Personal Data in strict confidence.
Personal Data may only be accessed and managed by such persons and
Subprosessors and Third Parties of Voog that need access to Personal Data for
fulfilling Voog’s obligations under this DPA, have confirmed confidentiality,
and only to the extent necessary for fulfilling Voog’s obligations according
to this DPA. 

3.2. The obligation of confidentiality pursuant to this section shall apply
without any limitation in time and survive termination of the DPA.

## 4\. Liability 

4.1. Voog is not responsible for Personal Data that You have elected to
process through Third Party Services or outside of the Services, including the
systems of any Third Party cloud services, offline or on-premises storage.

## 5\. Indemnification 

5.1. You shall indemnify and hold Voog harmless from any damage, claims or
administrative fines incurred by or arising against Voog, whether directly or
indirectly, due to Your Processing of Personal Data in breach of this DPA or
Applicable law. 

5.2. If claims or administrative fines are directed against Voog as a result
of breach of this DPA or Applicable Law, You shall immediately notify Voog
thereof and take every possible measure to mitigate the damages resulting from
the breach. 

5.3. Without prejudice to the regulations regarding right to compensation,
liability and fines, if Voog infringes Applicable Law by determining the
purposes and means of Processing, Voog shall be considered to be a Controller
in respect of the Processing and hence fully responsible for any such
Processing.

## 6\. Force majeure 

6.1. Parties understand and agree that the Party shall not be liable in
connection with any force majeure event, including, labour disputes or other
industrial disturbances, electrical, telecommunications, hardware, software or
other utility failures, software bugs or weaknesses, earthquakes, storms, or
other nature-related events, blockages, embargoes, riots, strikes, acts or
orders of government authority, acts of terrorism or war, technological change
and changes in interest rates or other monetary conditions. 

6.2. If an event of force majeure occurs, the Party injured hereto by the
other’s inability to perform may elect to suspend the DPA, in whole or part,
for the duration of the force majeure circumstances.

## 7\. Voog’s Processing Responsibilities 

7.1. We process Your Controlled Data for the purpose described in our Privacy
Policy and Terms of Service or consents You give us through Your Account. You
agree that the Agreement and the instructions given through Your Account are
your complete and final documented instructions to us in relation to Your
Controlled Data. 

7.2. Audits

    7.2.1. Voog shall make available to You upon request all information
    necessary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in this
    DPA.

    7.2.2. Voog shall allow for and contribute to audits, including
    inspections, requested by You. These audits may be conducted by an
    independent auditor bound by confidentiality obligations appointed by
    Voog.

    7.2.3. The audits will be carried out no more than once a year, unless an
    exceptional event justifies an audit (e.g. a request or investigation by a
    supervisory authority, a request by a Data Subject).

    7.2.4. Your right to request audits cannot affect and/or impede Voog’s
    economic and professional activities, other Voog’s clients and Data
    Subjects, Voog’s confidentiality obligations etc. Voog can determine the
    audit conditions regarding time and place.

    7.2.5. When infringements are detected during the audits, Voog will be
    given a reasonable timeframe (usually from twenty (20) to forty (40) days,
    but possibly less), depending on the nature and severity of the
    infringements, to implement corrective actions at Voog’s own expense.

    7.2.6. You will pay Voog’s costs in considering and addressing any request
    in relation to the audits. 

7.3. Sub-Processors.

    7.3.1. Voog has the right to engage Subprocessor to carry out all or part
    of the Processing activities entrusted to Voog by You.

    7.3.2. Upon your written request Voog shall communicate to You in writing
    (i) the identity of the Subprocessor, (ii) the location of the
    Subprocessor and (iii) the location of the Processing activities carried
    out by the Subprocessor.

    7.3.3. The Subprocessor shall be subject to the same obligations as Voog
    according to this DPA. Therefore, the Subprocessor shall comply with all
    obligations set out in this DPA and the obligations applicable to the
    Processor under the GDPR and any applicable data protection laws and
    regulations. Voog must impose these obligations on the Subprocessor, in
    writing by the way of a contract.

    7.3.4. Voog shall cause the Subprocessor to strictly comply with all
    obligations set out in this DPA and Voog will in any case remain fully
    liable to You for the due and timely performance of all and any such
    obligations by the Subprocessor.

7.4. Security measures

    7.4.1. Parties shall implement appropriate technical and organizational
    measures to ensure an adequate level of security for the Personal Data in
    order (in particular) to prevent the Personal Data from accidental or
    unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure, use or
    unauthorized access. These measures must comply with Applicable Law.

    7.4.2. Parties must implement a process for regularly testing, assessing
    and evaluating the effectiveness of these measures for ensuring the
    security of the Processing.

    7.4.3. Voog agrees that it shall not disclose any Personal data to any
    third party without Your consent, except according to this DPA or if
    legally allowed or obligated to do so.

7.5. Cross border data transfers

    7.5.1. Voog shall not transfer Personal Data provided by You, its
    affiliates or their employees to countries outside the European Economic
    Area or other countries with cross border data transfer restrictions
    unless Voog has implemented appropriate safeguards in accordance with
    Applicable Law.

    7.5.2. Prior to any cross border transfer, Voog must confirm whether there
    is (i) a decision from the European Commission or a competent authority in
    the relevant exporting country acknowledging that the importing country or
    importing category of recipients provide an adequate level of protection
    (ii) approved binding corporate rules or (iii) an approved certification
    authorizing the transfer or (iv) an approved code of conduct authorizing
    the transfer or (v) another approved data transfer mechanism in the
    relevant exporting country.

    7.5.3. When the transfer cannot benefit from the above-mentioned
    safeguards, Voog (as a Data Exporter) and the Data recipient (as a Data
    Importer) must conclude and implement standard contractual clauses adopted
    or approved under Applicable Law or regulations of the exporting country,
    such as the “Standard Contractual Clauses (processors) for the transfer of
    personal data to processor established in third countries which do not
    ensure an adequate level of data protection” proposed by the EU
    Commission. In this context, Voog (i) will make sure that, at all times,
    the Data Importer fully implements appropriate safeguards in accordance
    with this DPA, Applicable Law and (ii) proceeds with any relevant
    assessment, and (iii) immediately informs the Data Controller (You) in
    case of any breach by the data Importer or as the case may be, any
    subsequent Subprocessors.

    7.5.4. If You are the one who asks for the transfer of Personal data to
    third country, You have to submit to Voog documentation, which confirms
    that the transfer complies with Applicable Law.

## 8\. Data Breach 

8.1. In case of a Data Breach that is likely to result in a high risk for the
rights and freedoms of a Data Subject, Voog shall notify You immediately after
becoming aware of the Data Breach.

8.2. The notification shall, in any case, include the following information:
description of the facts, type of breach (confidentiality / integrity /
availability), stakeholders, countries, nature of compromised Personal Data,
number of individuals impacted, approximate number of records compromised,
likely consequences of the Data Breach, measures taken to address the Data
Breach, measures taken to address the adverse effects. Where any of the
information is not available at the time of the original notification, Voog
shall obtain such information forthwith and immediately notify You of such
information after becoming aware of it.

8.3. Voog must provide prompt support to You in assessing the need of and
dealing with the notification of a Data Breach to supervisory authorities and
to the Data Subjects, including the communication of any information needed to
comply with these obligations. Voog shall forthwith propose measures to
mitigate the Data Breach and its adverse effects on Data Subjects. Once agreed
by You, these measures shall be promptly implemented by Voog at Voog’s cost,
unless the Data Breach is due to Your default or failure.

## 9\. Data Subjects’ rights 

9.1. As part of its duties under this DPA, Voog shall, provide all reasonable
assistance to You for the fulfilment of Your obligation to respond to requests
from Data Subjects exercising their data protection rights.

9.2. In the event that Voog as the Processor receives such requests directly
from Data Subjects, Voog must not respond directly to such request but, within
maximum 10 days from the receipt of such request, inform You and provide
timely all relevant information to You in order to enable You to respond to
the Data Subject’s request taking into account the nature of the Processing,
Voog must (i) provide You all necessary information in order to respond to a
request based on the right of access and the right to portability, in the
appropriate form and format, (ii) take necessary steps in order to implement
the instructions given by You to address requests based on the rights of
erasure, rectification, restriction and objection. Voog’s action and response
must be provided timely in order to enable You to comply with the required
timeframes under applicable laws and regulations.

9.3. In the event that Voog receives a data protection claim, from a Data
Subject, it shall immediately inform You and provide forthwith all relevant
information in order to enable You to participate in the defense of such a
claim. In the event of a failure to do so Voog shall bear any costs, losses,
expenses or claims which You pay or is ordered to pay to Data Subjects in
respect of such a claim, unless the claim is caused by Your actions or
omissions.

## 10\. Cooperation with the supervisory authority

10.1. Voog must inform You immediately upon receiving a request relating to
data privacy from a supervisory authority according to Applicable Law, unless
court document or equivalent document forbids to do so.

10.2. Taking into account the information available, Parties will promptly and
efficiently assist other Party in its obligation to cooperate with the
supervisory authority, in order to enable the Party to respond promptly to any
queries of the supervisory authority.

## 11\. Term and changes of the DPA 

11.1. This DPA is valid from signing and for as long as Voog Processes any
Personal Data on behalf of Party.

11.2. In case of changes in Applicable Law, a final judgement causes another
interpretation of Applicable Law, the Services under this DPA, or in the event
of a material change in the ownership structure of Voog, the Parties shall in
good faith cooperate to update the DPA accordingly.

11.3. Voog shall be entitled to give written notice of termination of this
DPA, effective immediately or at any later date, in the event the Parties
cannot agree on a suitable change in the DPA due to changes in Applicable Law,
a final judgment, if the Services under the Agreement require changes to this
DPA, or in the event of a material change in the ownership structure of Voog.

11.4. Any breach of the obligations by You under this DPA is deemed material
and entitles Voog to give written notice of termination of this DPA effective
immediately or at any later date.

## 12\. Applicable law and Disputes

12.1. The DPA has been drawn up in accordance with the laws of the Republic of
Estonia and the application, interpretation, and termination thereof shall be
subject to the laws of the Republic of Estonia.

12.2. Any disputes arising from the performance of the DPA shall be settled
through negotiations. If the Parties fail to resolve the dispute through
negotiation, the disputes shall be settled by Harju Maakohus (Harju County
Court), pursuant to the procedure provided by the law of the Republic of
Estonia.

